well here we are Rikki Rockett he's made
out of very simple shapes and we're
going to need as ever a pencil and a pen
and an eraser and he's made a very
simple shapes what you need to start off
with is a circle for his space helmet I
mean you can use them you know a compass
or some kind of thing you know Jam lid
you can draw around if you can't get
that right let me draw a line kind of
across the middle that will give you a
kind of a help just about there that's
gonna be the top of his head and then
you're gonna want to bring round and a
kind of a semicircle down below and
that's his face really isn't it there we
go honey has a few head sticking up and
in between that space there you kind of
want to have a line across the middle
which will give you where his nose is
going to be and his eyes will kind of
rest on that line as well so they're
circles and then underneath that you
want a curve and then a curve going down
then that would be his mouth he's gonna
need some ears as well on the side we
can leave it like that for the moment
now his spacesuit he has these kind of
rubber seals which keep all the air in
or whatever you can do that later inside
that's kind of that's the back anyway
aha so you've got it's kind of like a
sausage and then you want to bring two
lines down straight down there's a curve
joining them at the bottom and then the
same kind of sausage shape around the
bottom there if you draw a little kind a
circle another one with a circle inside
that's the zip that holds it all
together two lines down below and a
ladder and that makes the zip he wants a
little are there to say who he is and he
has pockets in his space which is very
very useful now the arms they come out
from here and they have these little
sausages on the end as well which are
kind of like that keep all the area in
or to keep all the air out
what you're doing with the keep things
in around and they're they're kind of
seals around around wait what strap goes
on your wrist now for a hand draw very
very lightly draw a circle look at your
hand this is a circle there one sausage
sticks up and four sticks sideways so
you want a sausage sticking up there and
one two three four one sausage one two
three four there were your hands the
legs again you can make them a bit curvy
and they have a sausage on the end it's
just two lines joined at the bottom with
a kind of sausage around the back and
then you want to kind of a rugby ball
shape or a flattened something what
would you call that mmm I don't know an
ellipse anyway which kind of goes round
the back of the legs another one that
comes sideways just kind of like a
sausage again on the side and that is it
I'm gonna get my pen I start inking him
in so I'll draw that circle all the way
around first like that and then I'll
draw in his head it's all curves and
lines and very smooth now his hair is
just lots of lines like he's got a kind
of a 1960s astronaut Buzz hey buzz buzz
top or whatever they call them and he
has a few bits sticking out like that
good buzz cut that's what the astronauts
used to have just straight across the
top of their head those are his ears and
if you make them little circles and just
leave a little bit of white up in the
top that makes him look it's shiny
eyebrows and a nose and then keep his
teeth there shade in the darkness of his
mouth and his bottom lip now bring in
that air seal sausage his neck and the
bits behind
two lines down join them up at the
bottom a lot of sausage round the back
there's his zip and there's the ladder
of the zip mm ah
for Ricky in case he forgets who he is
put in his pockets you know a line two
lines coming out and joined at the top
with a sausage round the back two lines
coming out joined at the top with a
sausage round the back now don't drawing
that whole circle of the hand go around
the outside so there's the thumb and
then one two three four and that's I
think quite a good hand now the legs
bring them down down hang on to two
lines down join them with a curve at the
bottom and then that's sausage round the
back again and then 4x a rugby ball I
did what would you call it ellipse and
then these are the kind of the soles of
his feet thick rubber so he bounces
there you have Rikki Rockett and I know
I've got quick-drying ink so I can rub
this out there and there you have there
it is Rikki Rockett I think you need to
have a few stars around the blades just
to kind of make him feel a bit Spacey
like that and you can put a bit of
shadow in there if you learn it maybe
and there he is
so um just enjoy yourself and if you
haven't read the stories do read Rikki
Rockett stories because they're really
good funny yeah I'm saying that even
though I wrote it myself so if you want
to get copies of your own then come to
see Reina calm and go on the sign books
and stuff thing and I'll sign copies
directly for you
send them out oh you can get Amazon or
your favorite bookshop oh just get into
the library and borrow a copy and enjoy
so if you like that get drawing and I'll
see you soon shoo rayner drawing school
sirena dot-com